Add documentation page about `gdextension_interface.json` (#11551)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/scripting/gdextension/gdextension_interface_json_file.rst

it's also possible to use the Godot executable to dump a generated C header file:

.. code-block:: shell

    godot --headless --dump-gdextension-interface

.. note::

    The header file is compatible with earlier versions of the header file that were included
    with Godot 4.5 and earlier, which means it preserves some typos in names in order to
    ensure compatibility.

The goal of this page is to explain the JSON format for the GDExtension language bindings that
would like to do their own code generation from the JSON.

Overall structure
-----------------

The JSON file is broken up into 3 sections:

- The header, which includes some miscellaneous information at the top-level of the JSON file.
- The ``types`` key, which defines all the types used in the GDExtension interface.
- The ``interface`` key, which defines all the function pointers that can be loaded via the
  ``GDExtensionInterfaceGetProcAddress`` function pointer, which is passed to all GDExtensions
  when they are loaded.

There is a complete `JSON schema <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/blob/master/core/extension/gdextension_interface.schema.json>`__
included in Godot's source code.

> Even though we may add new types and interface function with each minor release of Godot, we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though we may add new types and interface functions with each minor release of Godot, we
```

  Right now, there is only one format version (``1``). If we ever change the file format in
  an incompatible way, we will increment this number. This *doesn't* reflect the version
  of the data in the file (so it won't change between Godot versions), only its format.
  Hopefully, we'll never have to use it, but it allows code generators to error early if they
  encounter an unexpected value here.

Types
-----

The ``types`` section is an array of types that will be used by other types, and the interface
functions that will be in the last section.

The types should be evaluated in order. Later types may refer to earlier types, but earlier
types will not refer to later types.

There is a small set of built-in types which aren't explicitly listed in the JSON:

- ``void``
- ``int8_t``
- ``uint8_t``
- ``int16_t``
- ``uint16_t``
- ``int32_t``
- ``uint32_t``
- ``int64_t``
- ``uint64_t``
- ``size_t`` (``uint32_t`` on 32-bit architectures, and ``uint64_t`` on 64-bit architectures)
- ``char``
- ``char16_t``
- ``char32_t``
- ``wchar_t``
- ``float``
- ``double``

These correspond to their equivalent C types.

Additionally, types can include modifiers such as:

> - ``*`` (ex ``int8_t*``) to indicate a pointer to the type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``*`` (e.g. ``int8_t*``) to indicate a pointer to the type
```

> - ``const`` (ex ``const int8_t*``) to indicate a const type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``const`` (e.g. ``const int8_t*``) to indicate a const type
```

> Each type defined in the JSON file falls into one of 5 "kind"s:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each type defined in the JSON file falls into one of 5 "kinds":
```

- ``enum``
- ``handle``
- ``alias``
- ``struct``
- ``function``

Regardless of the "kind", all types can have the following keys:

> - ``kind`` (required): The "kind" of type.

Reviewer: I'd say `the type "kind"` works better, but to me it reads like "the color of car" or "the height of building"

> - ``kind`` (required): The "kind" of type.

Author: > but to me it reads like "the color of car" or "the height of building"

Yeah, I see what you mean - in those cases you definitely need some article ("the" or "a")

But for some reason, in my mind, "kind of" cannot be followed by "the". Of course, there are several varieties of English, and maybe this is a peculiarity of the one I speak? It could be useful to get an opinion from another native English speaker

> - ``kind`` (required): The "kind" of type.

Reviewer: Alternatively `The "kind" type this type is"

> - ``kind`` (required): The "kind" of type.

Reviewer 2: How about `The type's "kind".`?

- ``name`` (required): The name of the type, which could be used as a valid C identifier.
- ``description``: An array of strings documenting the type, where each string is a line of

>   documentation (this format for ``description`` is used through out the JSON file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  documentation (this format for ``description`` is used throughout the JSON file).
```

- ``deprecated``: An object with its own keys for the Godot version the type was deprecated in
  (``since``), a message explaining the deprecation (``message``) and optionally a replacement
  to use instead (``replacement``).

Enums
~~~~~

Enums are 32-bit integers with a fixed set of possible values. In C, they could be represented
as an ``enum``.

They have the following keys:

- ``is_bitfield``: If true, this enum is a bitfield, where the enum values can be bitwise OR'd together.
  It is false by default.

> - ``values``: The array of fixed values for this enum, each with a ``name``, ``value`` and ``description``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``values``: The array of fixed values for this enum, each with a ``name``, ``value``, and ``description``.
```

        "values": [
            {
                "name": "GDEXTENSION_INITIALIZATION_CORE",
                "value": 0
            },
            {
                "name": "GDEXTENSION_INITIALIZATION_SERVERS",
                "value": 1
            },
            {
                "name": "GDEXTENSION_INITIALIZATION_SCENE",
                "value": 2
            },
            {
                "name": "GDEXTENSION_INITIALIZATION_EDITOR",
                "value": 3
            },
            {
                "name": "GDEXTENSION_MAX_INITIALIZATION_LEVEL",
                "value": 4
            }
        ]
    }

Handles
~~~~~~~

Handles are pointers to opaque structs. In C, they could be represented as ``void *`` or ``struct{} *``.

They have the following keys:

- ``is_const``: If true, this handle type is to be treated as a "const pointer", meaning it's internal
  data will not be changed. It is false by default.
- ``is_uninitialized``: If true, this handle type is to be treated as pointing to uninitialized memory
  (which may be initialized using interface functions).
- ``parent``: The optional name of another handle type, if this handle type is the const or uninitialized

>   version of the parent type.

Reviewer 3: Maybe document if we can expect that this is always present when `is_const || is_uninitialized` is true?

Handles are the size of pointers on the given architecture (so, 64-bit on x86_64 and 32-bit on x86_32,
for example).

Example
+++++++

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "GDExtensionStringNamePtr",
        "kind": "handle"
    }

Aliases
~~~~~~~

> Aliases are alternative names for another type. In C, they could be represented with a ``typedef``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aliases are alternative names for a type. In C, they could be represented as a ``typedef``.
```

They have only one additional key:

- ``type``: The type the alias is an alternative name for. It may include modifiers as described above.

These should be represented using the same C type as the type they point to, except when a pointer
modifier is used (in which case, they should be represented as pointers).

Example
+++++++

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "GDExtensionInt",
        "kind": "alias",
        "type": "int64_t"
    }

Structs
~~~~~~~

Structs represent C ``struct``'s (aka a block of memory made up the given members in order), and should
follow all the same layout and alignment rules as C structs.

They have only one additional key:

> - ``members``: An array of objects which have a ``name``, ``type`` (which may include modifiers) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``members``: An array of objects which have a ``name``, ``type`` (which may include modifiers), and
```

  ``description``.

Example
+++++++

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "GDExtensionCallError",
        "kind": "struct",
        "members": [
            {
                "name": "error",
                "type": "GDExtensionCallErrorType"
            },
            {
                "name": "argument",
                "type": "int32_t"
            },
            {
                "name": "expected",
                "type": "int32_t"
            }
        ]
    }

Functions
~~~~~~~~~

> Functions represent C function pointer types, with a list of arguments and a return type, and should

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: "parameters" usually refer to the declaration site, where "arguments" are the call site. But this terminology isn't really used in Godot (which uses "arguments" in most places), so might as well leave it 🙂

follow the same size and alignment requirements as C function pointers.

They have the following members:

> - ``return_value``: An object which has a ``type`` (which may include modifiers), and ``description``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``return_value``: An object which has a ``type`` (which may include modifiers) and ``description``.
```

  It will always be given, and use ``void`` as the ``type`` if the function returns no value.
- ``arguments``: An array of function arguments which each has a ``type`` (which may include modifiers),
  a ``name`` and ``description``.

Example
+++++++

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "GDExtensionPtrConstructor",
        "kind": "function",
        "return_value": {
            "type": "void"
        },
        "arguments": [
            {
                "name": "p_base",
                "type": "GDExtensionUninitializedTypePtr"
            },
            {
                "name": "p_args",
                "type": "const GDExtensionConstTypePtr*"
            }
        ]
    }

Interface
---------

The ``interface`` section of the JSON file is the list of interface functions, which can be loaded

> by their ``name`` using the ``GDExtensionInterfaceGetProcAddress`` function pointer, which is

Author: Ack, it looks like that change actually didn't end up in that push - I probably forgot to save before committing. It's in there now :-)

.. _doc_gdextension_interface_json_file:

The gdextension_interface.json file
===================================

The ``gdextension_interface.json`` file is the canonical definition of the C API that

> Godot uses to communicate with GDExtensions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ``gdextension_interface.json`` file is the official definition of the C API that
Godot uses to communicate with GDExtensions.
```

I would replace `canonical` with `official`.

Other options: 
`approved`, 
`recognized`, 
`accepted`

You can use the Godot executable to dump the file by using the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

    godot --headless --dump-gdextension-interface-json

This file is intended to be used by GDExtension language bindings to generate code for
using this API in whatever form makes the most sense for that language.

.. note::

    This is not to be confused with the ``extension_api.json``, which is also used by
    GDExtension language bindings, and contains information about the classes and
    methods that are exposed by Godot. The ``gdextension_interface.json`` is more
    low-level, and is used to interact with those higher-level classes and methods.

For languages that can be extended via C, or provide tools for interacting with C code,
it's also possible to use the Godot executable to dump a generated C header file:

.. code-block:: shell

    godot --headless --dump-gdextension-interface

.. note::

    The header file is compatible with earlier versions of the header file that were included
    with Godot 4.5 and earlier, which means it preserves some typos in names in order to
    ensure compatibility. These "legacy names" can be found in the ``legacy_type_name`` key

>     in the JSON file.

Reviewer 5: This may be a bit early to explain this, as the structure of the file hasn't been explained at all by this point.

Reviewer 5: ```
The header file was the previous canonical definition of the interface.
It will continue to work, but we recommend using the json file instead.
```

Something like this maybe?
